Download VS Code:

Visit the Visual Studio Code website.
Download the .deb package suitable for Debian/Ubuntu.

Install VS Code on Ubuntu:

Open a terminal and navigate to the directory where the .

deb package was downloaded:
cd ~/Downloads

Install the package using dpkg:
sudo dpkg -i <package-file-name>.deb

Replace <package-file-name> with the actual package file name.

Resolve dependencies, if any, with:
sudo apt-get install -f

Launch VS Code by typing code in the terminal.

First-time Setup

Initial Configurations:

Open VS Code and navigate to File > Preferences > Settings.

Customize settings like editor.tabSize, editor.formatOnSave, and files.autoSave.

Install extensions such as Debugger for Chrome for web development.


User Interface Overview

Components:

Activity Bar: Provides quick access to different views (Explorer, Source Control, etc.).

Side Bar: Contains views like File Explorer, Search, and Git integration.

Editor Group: Where files are opened for editing.

Status Bar: Displays information like line endings, indentation, and Git branch status.


Command Palette

Access: Use Ctrl+Shift+P.

Examples:

Git: Commit: Commit changes to Git.

Preferences: Color Theme: Change the color theme.

Tasks: Run Task: Execute configured tasks.


Extensions in VS Code

Role: Extend functionality (e.g., languages, debugging tools).

Management: Accessible via Extensions view in the Activity Bar.

Example Extensions: Live Server for web development, Python for Python support.


Integrated Terminal

Open: Use `Ctrl+``.

Advantages:

Access to CLI tools within VS Code.

Seamless integration with tasks and Git commands.


File and Folder Management

Create/Open/Manage:

Use Explorer view in Side Bar to navigate files and folders.

File > Open Folder to open a specific folder.

Ctrl+Click to open files.


Settings and Preferences

Customization:

Navigate to File > Preferences > Settings.

Customize workbench.colorTheme, editor.fontSize, and keybindings.json.


Debugging in VS Code

Setup:

Install debugger extensions as needed.

Set breakpoints in code.

Start debugging with F5 or through the Debug menu.